Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, now that we've identified who you want to interview,
we're going to talk about how do you get them to talk.
A lot of people think "If I just message someone out of the blue,
why would they respond to me?"
"Why would they give me their time just because?"
So, in this lecture we're going to address that.
We're going to go over three principles to live by
when asking to interview a customer and some two
bonus tips that'll put you over the edge.
To those of you that nodded when I said "Why would they actually contact us?" well, you know, let's talk about it.
It's rather obvious that if you're cold emailing someone,
even if you use the techniques that we covered in
the last two lectures, it's still a relatively cold email.
They have no personal connection to you - and we all know
how we treat emails from people we don't know, right?
You probably don't remember them,
they go to spam, or you delete them faster than
you can even notice. The thing is, in general, with cold
emailing, you have to think of it kind of
from the perspective of investment.
If someone doesn't know you, they may be willing to
read your e-mail, but they are not going to be willing
to invest the time to read the entire thing.
If they're talking to a friend, and a friend, let's say, e-mails them,
they'll probably read a page - right? - before spacing out.
But if someone e-mails them, they have no idea who you are,
and they're not referring to any previous
conversation, they might give you a couple of sentences.
This can be overcome and it's relatively easy.
So let's talk about three things to live by.
Three tenants of cold emailing. If you follow these three, you will have a dramatic increase in the number of people that respond.
Side note, though. To put this in perspective, we generally
have a ratio, 3:1, which we use to reference
how many people you contact and how many people respond.
Obviously, this is a generalization, but set your expectations
like that: if you message 10 people and 3 people respond,
don't get mad at the other seven.
It's just the case that you generally have to message
three times as many people that you want to interview.
And also, keep in mind, let's say you want to interview 10 people, how many people should you message?
Probably 30, maybe more to be safe.
Anyway, enough of that. Let's back to the three main tenants.
Ok, so the number one tenant when contacting someone
in a cold connection type situation is: be short.
You probably figured this out, because I was just talking about how people aren't going to give you a lot of time investment,
so being short is incredibly important.
It's one of the biggest mistakes I see people making.
They'll message someone that they want to contact and
they'll send pages and pages.
This happens to me all the time.
Somehow people get my e-mail address
and send me something, and it's three pages long.
It's ridiculous.
No one under any circumstance is going to read that.
So focus yourself on brevity.
Now, what do I mean specifically when I say "short"?
How short is short? Should it be like a tweet or is
short like four paragraphs? Short generally means
closer to the tweet than the five paragraphs.
I like to think of it in terms of 4-7 sentences.
If you can get it away in four, that's great,
but seven is the absolute maximum.
Anything over that and you'll see your response rates just plummet.
Number two: be personal. People do not want to be e-mailed
from a robot, we don't like talking to robots.
If I even sniff or have the tiniest little inkling that
this is an auto-generated email, that dramatically
lowers the chances of me responding to it.
Now, you're not going to be messaging millions of people,
or even thousands of people, so there's really
no excuse for not adding at least a tiny bit of personalization.
The most effective way of being personal
is by responding to how you found them.
Okay? If this is a person you found on Twitter, complaining
about something, you need to immediately make
a connection to that. Say that you saw that they had this problem,
you recognize that it's a problem, and then you
go into the ask, asking them to talk to you.
That email cannot possibly be auto-generated.
People are much more likely to respond if they actually think you typed it out - and you don't have to type every single one out,
you can make a semi-template where you're only modifying
one or two sentences of the four to seven, but
you have to write those one to two. If you found someone
who wrote a blog piece and you're connecting
with them, then you need to say something
about their piece that you had a connection with,
you responded to. Point out some kind of connection between something they mentioned and something you've
experienced yourself.
And the last tenant of cold emailing is: be valuable.
Yes, you are correct in saying that everyone out there,
for the most part, will consider their own self
interest when answering your e-mail and thinking about
whether or not they want to spend time talking to you.
No, I'm not saying that you have to bribe every single
person that you talk to, but you need to show that
having this conversation with you is valuable in some way to them.
You know, that could be abstract things as simple as "It would help our organization out" - a lot of people want to feel altruistic.
They want to feel like they're helping.
That ultimately is valuable to them.
Telling them that you value their input and there's a high likelihood that you'll act on it makes them feel like they actually have an effect
on the organization. It's not like voting
for the president, this actually matters.
And yes, of course, you can offer to incentivize them, and that's something that you're almost always going to try at some point.
It is very effective and it is something you can use
to quickly get people to agree to talk to you, but
it's not the case that you have to grease the wheel for
every single person, you can appeal to their better self.
Okay, got it?
You open up that e-mail client, you'd better make sure
you are 4-7 sentence short - short, short, short -
you've got to make sure that you sound personal and
not like a robot that just auto-generated this,
you need to connect it to something they did or something
you've experienced that is similar to them,
it needs to be customized, and it needs to be valuable.
Why should they spend time talking to you?
You can butter them up with money and gift cards if you want,
but you can also just appeal to the fact that they could
help you out, and a lot of people are ok with that.
Now, before you run out there and just start willy-nilly
e-mailing people to see if they'll talk to you,
there's two other tips that I want to give you that
will really put you over the top as a product manager.
Two other things that I really insist on trying to fit into cold emails
is, one - make sure that you mention that you're not from sales.
That is an amazing advantage to you.
I would say 60% of the people that don't respond
just think that it's because if they talk to you,
you're going try to sell them something.
So if you say you're not in sales, you're in
a different department, or a different role,
the title of product manager is very innocuous.
No one's going to think that at the end of this conversation
you're going to pitch them on a time share condo in Florida.
This is an advantage that is specific to you, and
even founders of companies can't do this.
They can't say "I'm not in sales" because if they're
the ones e-mailing people that's because they don't
have any sales people or have product managers, and founders
do a lot of selling, so it doesn't really work that way.
The second thing that will really increase your chances
of connecting is: make them feel special.
You really need to emphasize that you want to understand
their specific problems and build products
that fix their problems and that they can help you get there.
That sort of "Neo, you are the only one" type
kind of conversation makes them feel like, "Well, I'm the only one who can actually help them. This is really a waste if I don't."
Alternatively, you can make it sound like the reason why you're reaching out to them is because they have done something right.
Give them the VIP treatment, make it sound like "You know,
we listen to you more than we listen to other people."
I bet you didn't know this, but Udemy actually does this.
They use the VIP treatment to get feedback from people.
They actually have an account manager system
that is only offered for a very select group of instructors.
So make them feel special, make it sound like
you are giving them special treatment,
they have information that is more valuable than anybody else.
They will melt for it, especially if they're power users.
All right, guys, we've covered the concepts of how to get them to talk to you. In the next lecture, let's actually start doing it.
I'll open up an email client and show you how these three principles & two tips translate into actual email communication.
All right, see you then.